# Plan 10. Cleansing (tapa)

Being at the first level, for some time the player may feel quite well, but soon he begins to experience a lack of vital energy wasted in negative emotions and sensuality. Loss of energy leads to feelings of inner emptiness and confusion. At this point, his attention is drawn to the cleansing. This is where the first arrow of the game board begins, giving the player the opportunity to immediately overcome all the problems associated with the second chakra. Moving from the level of the first chakra to the cell of purification, the player gets rid of all the negative aspects of the first two chakras and is transferred to the heavenly plane. Purification is always accompanied by an increase in the level of vibrations, and the energy begins to flow upward. This process occurs due to a change in the functioning of the senses and actions, as well as the correction of a person's lifestyle. The castle of consciousness has five entrances through which enemies (pollutions) can enter and try to overthrow the king. To keep the castle clean, it is necessary either to close these entrances, or to carefully monitor what comes from outside.

Purification of hearing occurs when the power of hearing is withdrawn from the external world and directed towards the sounds of the inner world. Purification of vision is achieved by focusing the gaze (the eyes are closed at the same time) and attention to the "third eye" - the point located between the eyebrows, slightly above the bridge of the nose. By removing sweet and salty foods from food, taste purification is achieved. Purification of the sense of smell is carried out by closing the nostrils while holding the breath while inhaling for the maximum possible time (this also helps to develop the habit of breathing deeper and more slowly). Rubbing ash into the skin purifies the sense of touch, making the player indifferent to the impulses coming from the skin's sensitive nerve endings.

Not sleeping for one or more days clears the player of inertia, drowsiness, boredom and ignorance. Maintaining complete silence for a certain period of time purifies the thought process. Fasting cleanses the body. Overcoming hardships purifies the player's personality, listening to reading scriptures and divinely inspired poetry purifies the player's inner self, reciting mantras purifies the nerves, and concentration and meditation purifies both body and mind. Abstinence from sexual life also serves as one of the methods of purification; it is a difficult but very effective way to change the habitual level of vibrations.
