# Plan 11. Entertainment (Gandharvas)

The scriptures say that the gandharvas are the musical notes of the Lord. The word gandharva is translated as "heavenly musician". This is one of the eight types of living beings that are not perceived by ordinary vision, but they can also take on a visible form if they wish. They are created from subtle matter and live on the astral plane. The life of these beings is in harmony with the divine music and is dedicated to the entertainment of the gods and other beings who have reached this plane in the process of evolution. There are many stories in the Puranas involving Gandharvas and Apsaras (nymphs). Initially, they are free from the cycle of birth and death, but if their actions conflict with the conditions of this plane of existence, they fall to the ground and are born in human form. However, wherever they are, life serves the entertainment of others. The player enters the entertainment area after being cleared. This level is a reflection of inner joy, a sense of rhythm and harmony. Entertainment brings a feeling of lightness, encouraging relaxation and enjoyment of the moment. They enliven the monotony of everyday life, opening up new perspectives and horizons. All works of art are products of this state, which belongs to the second row of the game board, which represents the various aspects of the vibrations of the second chakra. However, the principle itself exists at all levels. For example, Leela's game serves as entertainment for people striving for perfection.

Life is based on the principle of entertainment - enjoyment. However, such a view of life is achieved only after overcoming the level of the first chakra with its main problem - self-doubt and preoccupation with material well-being. Entertainment is the essence of Spirit. All this created universe is a play of energies carried out by Shakti, the mother principle, the Absolute, God... whatever name we choose for the Supreme Player. If this principle were not contained in the nature of the Divine Game, then the One would not become many. Entering deeper and deeper into the game that serves as the entertainment of the One, the player is imbued with its rules in order to reunite with Him at the end.
