# Plan 15. Fantasy plan (naga-loka)

Naga-loka would have to be the underworld. There are seven planes above the earth plane and seven planes below it. The planes that lie below the earth are located under water. The rulers of each of these worlds are separate classes of beings. One of the seven lower worlds is Patapa, whose rulers are snakes (nagas). In mythology, these are semi-divine creatures with a human face and a tail like a dragon. Nagas are also understood as a sect of hermit initiates who have attained great wisdom. Nothing is hidden and cannot be hidden from their all-seeing gaze. Since the naga-loka is the plane of fantasy, it is located not above the earth, but below it, immersed in the waters in accordance with the nature of the phenomenon called fantasy.

The player who enters this plane is completely immersed in the fantasy world created by his imagination, which takes him beyond the limits of physical reality to the endless possibilities of human existence. There are no limits or restrictions here, all the energy of the player is directed to the study of this world and is manifested in the creation of works of art, new ideas and discoveries. He explores the world around him with the help of his senses in search of more and more stimulation of his imagination, trying to experience all possible combinations of sensory experience. The main motive of his activity is the question: "What if ..?" The player's fantasy here knows no limits, nothing seems too fantastic or strange. On the astral plane, the player begins to realize his abilities, but here he is completely absorbed by this dimension of mental space. Many of the best works of art come from immersing yourself in this imaginary world. However, if the player loses control over his fantasies, he loses contact with the reality of the reality around him and may find himself in the jaws of a snake of jealousy that awaits him on the next cell.

The word naga is translated from Sanskrit as "snake". So the plane of fantasy is also the plane of snakes. The snake serves as a symbol of energy. The Kundalini that yogis seek to raise through their practice is often referred to as the "serpent power". In Western mythology, the snake is one of the possible forms of the devil. The snake embodies the qualities of constant movement, flexibility and shapeshifting inherent in a player who is at the level of the second chakra. And just as a snake takes refuge in holes underground, so does a player whose vibration corresponds to the second chakra.
