# Plan 28. True religiosity (sudharma)

Sudharma, or true religiosity, means taking the direction and course of action that best suits the player. Sudharma is life in harmony with the laws of the game. This is a direction of action that allows the player to roll the die without worrying about where it will land.

The literal translation of the word sudharma is "one's own Dharma." What is it? What should the player do? If the Dharma is the rules of conduct, they should be the same for everyone. But if this were so, no one would have to think about anything, everyone would live the same way. However, people are people, not machines. They differ from each other in many ways. Different people are born at different times and to different parents. Relatives, environment, atmosphere, as well as geographical, ethnographic and social conditions are different for different people. Everyone is born with a certain set of positive and negative inclinations—no one is perfect. And no person can completely obey the law of Dharma prescribed by any particular religion or personality. Everyone must understand their own role in the game. He must follow his own unique path to liberation. And the ups and downs in a player's life determine the path he takes across the fields of the playing board.

Sudharma means maintaining a high state of mind and completely rejecting false means to achieve one's goals. Sudharma is the belief in the possibility of liberation, merging with the Cosmic Consciousness. Sudharma is detachment from ups and downs in the ocean of maya.

The musician will find the expression of the concept of sudharma in music, the artist in painting. Each player has seven centers of mental vibrations. If he feels confident at any of these levels, it is from here that he should try to develop his creative activity. This is his only sudharma. All religious rules and norms of behavior are nothing but external means that help to understand the true nature of a person, his sudharma. As soon as the player begins to understand sudharma, he becomes religious internally, and religion becomes his way of life. Rituals lose their meaning, life itself turns into a constant worship. And the player becomes ready to move to the ascetic plane.

Until the player reaches the fourth chakra, Dharma remains for him only a term devoid of inner meaning.

In the third chakra, he must identify himself with a group of like-minded people, in the second he identifies with his feelings, in the first with the ability to ensure his physical survival. In the third chakra, he understands the laws of karma, the meaning of charity, the ethical aspect of the Dharma, the consequences of being in a good and bad environment, the redemption and suffering of life. But the understanding of one's role in the game comes only with getting to the level of the fourth chakra, on the field of sudharma, from which one moves to the plane of asceticism for strict self-restraint and work on oneself. Following the path of sudharma leads him directly to the sixth row of the playing board to the sixth chakra.
