# Plan 3. Anger (krodha)

To understand the nature of anger, it is essential to understand the nature of the ego. The ego is that which identifies itself as 'I'. Man in the process of his development passes through a sequence of identifications. After birth, the child first begins to feel like a separate being when he realizes his separateness from his mother. Then there is identification with other family members, he takes their behaviors and forms of thinking as his own. The child then associates himself with peers of the same gender as him. Then he seeks his identity among members of the opposite sex. The journey ends when the ego eventually identifies itself with the Absolute and merges with the Cosmic Consciousness.

The process of identification also involves the intellect, which stores information received in the course of development - value judgments received from those with whom this person most strongly identified himself (for example, from parents) are especially important here. The true inner self knows that it contains all reality. However, the self-identifying 'I' will exclude those aspects of reality that are considered evil by those to whom this 'I' identifies itself.

Anger is an emotional-chemical reaction that occurs when the ego encounters any aspect of its personality that has been rejected as evil. Encountering this negative aspect is experienced as an existential threat. In reality, there is a threat only to identify the person with one or another assessment of what is happening. In this case, the ego projects the rejected aspect of the personality onto the one through whom this aspect manifests, and directs its energy to remove the unwanted aspect. That is the nature of anger.

Anger is a manifestation of dispersion, weakness. This cell serves as the tail of the snake of selfishness. Anger sends the player's energy down, which brings them to the level of the first chakra. When the ego is hurt, we feel anger. Anger is uncertainty, the main problem of the first chakra.

Anger is a serious obstacle to spiritual growth. The nature of anger is a fire that burns everything. But if anger arises without any personal feelings, is impersonal, then it purifies. Anger is a quality of Rudra, the god of destruction. Rudra's anger is not based on any personal reasons, so it does not destroy Rudra himself, but the evil that causes disharmony and imbalance. Anger, caused by some personal reasons, devours the good qualities of the individual and leads to a fall. Impersonal anger destroys its cause, evil. Anger is the other side of love. We do not get angry at those with whom we do not identify ourselves. Anger excites the nervous system and completely stops the work of rational thinking for as long as it exists in our system. On the one hand, it cleanses the body and is similar in action to purification by fire, but the price of this is too high: the vibration level drops so much that the player has to start the game again from the first row.

Anger can be expressed in two ways - violent and non-violent. When a non-violent method is adopted to express anger, it gives the player tremendous moral power called satyagraha (satya-truth; agraha-perseverance, constancy). This becomes possible if the player is able to remain calm even when really angry. In this case, anger becomes impersonal and directed against evil. It is based on love, love for the good, for the truth. Such anger helps spiritual growth and is divine.

The three embodies the qualities of creativity, expression and stability. As a member of the odd number family, she represents dynamism and positivity, and is responsible for creating and maintaining form. It is associated with the element of fire, which in man manifests itself in the form of anger. On the other hand, the same element can manifest itself as diligence, perseverance. Thus, the characteristics of the number three are strength and determination. Three is the number of Jupiter. Jupiter is a symbol of courage, courage, strength, power, diligence, energy, knowledge, wisdom and spirituality.
