# Plan 50. Plan of asceticism (tapa-loka)

Just as in the fifth chakra, knowledge was of primary importance for the player, here, on the plane of asceticism, all the aspirations of the player are directed to doing the hard work of penance and austerity. The word tapas means "asceticism", "mortification", "burning". This is the practice of self-denial meditation.

Tapa loka is the sixth of the seven major planes of existence. This place does not perish with the onset of the night of Brahma. The element that predominates here is air, and consequently all the combinations that exist on this plane can easily penetrate one another. Despite the fact that the area of existence of the elements of creation is limited to the first five planes, in some lokas, special areas located in space, the elements still exist. Those who develop as a result of hard work on themselves are sent to these worlds depending on the state of their consciousness. Tapa-loka is inhabited by great yogis and ascetics who have gone on a path from which there is no return, immersed in deep asceticism, the purpose of which is to move up to the next level, satya-loka.

The developing self-observer notices the karma left unworked, and it becomes too heavy a burden to move on. Only repentance and the flame of asceticism can burn it.

The player can get to tapa loka directly through the practice of sudharma in the fourth chakra or gradually, moving through the fifth chakra, developing consciousness and mastering the system of lunar and solar energy. The experience of unity with reality deprives the sensory world of all its attractiveness. From now on, all elements are in the power of the player. His ability to penetrate the nature of the space-time continuum allows him to see the beginning and end of creation. By continuing to live in his limited body, he becomes unlimited. The player knows that he is an immortal spirit in a mortal body. Death ceases to inspire horror. And here the player begins to understand what “You are That” and “I am It” means - in Sanskrit it sounds like Tat tvam asi and hamsa. The player himself now becomes a paramahamsa.

There is a lot of talk in the West about the "third eye". To understand this phenomenon, the player must experience all the difficulties of the ascetic plane. He must go through asceticism. Refuse to identify yourself as male or female. His whole understanding of himself must change radically. He must acknowledge the presence of the Divine within himself. He must feel his infinite nature. The sound Om becomes his mantra here. It is a cosmic sound that creates a resonance in his system and helps to raise his energy level. At every moment he hears his inner sound. Filled with power, this sound gradually spreads everywhere until it becomes all-consuming, enclosing all the sounds surrounding it, internal and external. Everyone who is close to him becomes calm and begins to hear the same sound generated by his own system.

Each player has a special effect on other players depending on the level at which he is currently located. The presence of a person of the first chakra makes a frightening or pathetic impression. He either aggressively strives for physical survival, or complains bitterly about his inability to achieve it. A person of the second chakra, preoccupied with the satisfaction of his sensual desires, seeks to charm people, his voice is seductive and sweet. A player whose vibrations have reached the third chakra is constantly looking for a challenge to himself. He affirms his "I" wherever possible, and whenever possible, in search of even more confirmation of the virtues he has already acquired. The player of the fourth chakra inspires the players around him. He has found his emotional center and does not produce threatening vibrations. The player, who is at the level of the fifth chakra, holds a mirror created from his own experience in which other players can see their reflection. The human presence of the sixth chakra opens the Divine. Next to him, other players lose their self-identification, internal barriers dissolve, and they strive to connect their consciousness with the consciousness of the one who has established himself in the plan of asceticism.
