# Plan 12. Envy (irasya)

Envy is the first snake on the board. It stings the player, returning them to the first level of the plane of greed and all other properties of the first chakra. When placed on the cell of envy, the player experiences a lack of self-confidence and, in order to overpower his desires, resorts to a strategy characteristic of the first chakra. This snake stings the player again and again, causing them to go back down, which serves to clear their mind during the game.

In the game of life, energy moves from the bottom up. The player strives to leave the lower planes and reach the top, turning away from the problems that he has to face below.

However, such a position is contrary to one of the most important principles of the game, since the player must play harmoniously fulfilling his role both above and below, wherever his karma die leads. However, no one wants to stay down. When the vibrations of the player become inharmonious, he falls under the influence of the snakes and falls to the lower planes. All his movements up and down are determined by the number he rolls on the dice. When a person falls under the influence of envy, his energy goes down. By coincidence of karmic circumstances, he fell into the second chakra plane, but he really does not deserve to stay here. In fact, he cannot remain on this plane because of the negative vibrations left in his personality. At such moments, the player envies those who are able to stay on higher planes without losing balance. Envy is the negative reaction that causes the player to fall to the level of the first chakra, where he will have to realize and work out new elements of his negative karma.
