# Plan 37 Jnana (jnana)

The knowledge of truth and the understanding of the right means of putting it into practice in daily life are the two essential characteristics of jnana. Jnana is the force that elevates the player to the plane of bliss located in the eighth row beyond the chakras. The player who understands his role in the game and the nature of the actions that will enable him to fulfill this role lives in bliss. The player can realize his wisdom only by having the experience of mental clarity. The transformation of energy, which allows him to rise to the fifth chakra, occurs only if all evaluations and judgments are suspended.

Jnana is not yet liberation. The player has yet to free himself from everything that clouds his mind. But he knows that these obstacles can be removed and that Cosmic Consciousness is a very achievable goal. Some Hindu philosophers see Jnana as a direct path to Moksha, Cosmic Consciousness. But in this game jnana leads to bliss. The player must go through the plan of cosmic good, or roll a deuce, or he will again be involved in the cycle of rebirth. In this case, he returns to Earth and can start the game again.

Jnana is awareness, but not final realization. Jnana is the understanding of the laws of being and how to live in harmony with them. In the fourth chakra, the player achieves balance, the consciousness is cleared, and now, thanks to this, the player can truly penetrate the world of concepts and ideas. The player ceases to be attached to the forms of expression and tries to penetrate into the essence of the phenomenon (such penetration in the West is called "insight"). In the light of pure, unclouded consciousness, old relationships take on completely new shapes. Illusion (maya) is the cause of bondage. The cause of liberation from illusion, leading to bliss, is jnana.

As long as the player is aware of himself as a separate independent entity, he is bound by individual karma. In the light of jnana, it becomes clear that by limiting the scope of karma, he can begin to assert himself in bliss. This is an insight into the essence of the game.

In the first three chakras, the player was lost in the realms of delusion, fantasy, power. Everything that gave him hope, in the end, brought only disappointment, fatigue and pain. In the fourth chakra, he began to balance his inner world; then, with a clearing of consciousness, he plunged into an upward flow of energy that lifted him from the fourth chakra to the fifth. Being in balance, he sees that his goal is quite achievable, and brings his life in line with the understanding of the process of achieving it.

Jnana is a blank page. Whatever is written on its surface are only illusions that are shrouded in ahamkara, ego (it would be wisest, therefore, to leave this page blank. But there is an arrow in it. And, of course, the author feels the bliss of experience and simply cannot refrain from manifesting just as God Himself could not resist when He said, “Let there be light”). Illusions are not permanent: one replaces another, but the page on which they are applied is unchanged and always remains the same. In light of this wisdom, the player begins to understand the karmic writings that fill this blank page. After some time, the player wants to apply these letters himself. The implementation of jnana leads to the fact that the player also understands that everything must be left untouched, word for word, as it was given.

The jnana field is rightfully located at the level of the fifth chakra, since it is here that the source of billions of blank pages is located, which are the essence of all world religious teachings. In the fifth chakra, the main concern of the player becomes communication with others: he seeks to convey to others the understanding of the essence of the game that he has achieved, while simultaneously realizing that this is not feasible.
