# Plan 45 Right Knowledge (suvidya)

If jnana is the realization of truth, "correct knowledge" includes awareness and behavior (practice). This combination lifts the player to the eighth plane, the field of cosmic good. And now only one step separates him from the goal. He is aware of himself as a macrocosm in a microcosm, an ocean enclosed in a drop.

In the Hindu tradition, there are fourteen aspects of vidya (knowledge), symbolically represented as spokes in the wheel of truth. These fourteen areas of knowledge contain everything that a person needs to know and understand reality. These are the four Vedas, six Shastras, Dharma, Nyaya (logic), Mimamsa (critical understanding) and Puranas. In an industrial society, however, knowledge takes on a new look. Now knowledge is only what can be entered into a computer, that is, information. But the human mind is more than a computer. And right knowledge requires experience.

Correct knowledge adds a new dimension to jnana, awareness of the unity of the past, present and future, which are aspects of a single time continuum. While wisdom may dictate one behavior, correct knowledge may require the opposite. The disciples, guided by wisdom, rejected Christ. According to correct knowledge, Christ allowed himself to die on the cross, knowing that subtle principles always outweigh the value of material forms.

Right knowledge is the food of consciousness, protecting it from the snakes of lack of religiosity, sadness, jealousy, envy, ignorance, violence, selfishness, tamas and the inertia of the negative mind. Right knowledge strengthens the inner voice. Suvidya tames the tiger of the mind and transforms the forest of desires into a blossoming garden of evolution. The word vidya comes from the root vid, meaning "to know". The most ancient form of knowledge is the state of samadhi, in which the answer comes through direct interaction with reality. Therefore, all knowledge of the Hindu tradition is called darshana (the word darshana means "vision" or "experience"). True knowledge is manifested in the complete merging of the cognizing subject and the cognized object. This is vidya, right knowledge.

The field of correct knowledge completes the passage of the fifth chakra, the fifth row of the game. At this stage, the player reaches full awareness of his unity with the cosmos, he merges with the ultimate reality and ascends to the plane of Rudra (Shiva), the plane of cosmic good.
