# Plan 7. Vanity (mada)

Vanity is self-deception, false pride, building castles in the air. In Sanskrit, the word mada, in addition to vanity, also means 'intoxication'. The player becomes intoxicated with his strength, his real or imaginary virtues and achievements. When he has any delusions about himself, he falls into the net of mada. After entering the game, the player is subject to the influence of Mada Vanity and various false identities. Pride and vanity are two of the most dangerous poisons that we drink when we are in a bad environment. Bad company, the offspring of delusion and greed, is the snake that leads the player to vanity. On this field, the player finds himself completely entangled in the networks of his own games. The bad environment in which he finds himself is a manifestation of evil desires.

Everyone plays their own game and rolls their own die. Once the die is rolled, there is no choice left. The player, having no desire to do so, will not look for a company. But since desire is the nature of this game, the search for a company becomes inevitable at some point in its development. The player needs a group of people to reinforce his new identities. Danger appears when the player is carried away by their desires. The pattern of his behavior changes radically. Everything that is right no longer seems right to him, and the bad does not seem bad. His desire must be satisfied at all costs, and thus he creates bad karma and finds himself in bad company, among those who support his wrong behavior. Since a person at this stage of development is shaped by the group of people to which he belongs, the player can stop creating bad karma for himself if he starts looking for good company.

The number seven refers to the family of the Sun, is associated with Saturn and with the principle of darkness. There are seven days of the week, seven musical notes and seven chakras. Seven can be represented as one with two odd numbers on either side (two threes). Seven is a number that symbolizes adjustment problems. Seven is lonely by nature and longs for completion.

Seven is traditionally associated with Ketu, the South Node of the Moon, also known as the Tail of the Dragon. In modern Indian numerology, the number seven is ruled by Varuna, the lord of water, and in Western numerology by Neptune. Seven is the number of writers and artists who, when not developed, are in false pride and are known for building castles in the air and always worrying about the future. They do not like to walk the beaten path and have very specific ideas about religion. They tend to create their own religion and spend their lives in entertainment.
